datter's law says any useful idea about
the future
should at first seem ridiculous
and that's really important to hold in
our minds right because you know on one
hand
it's easy to prepare for futures that
sound normal that feel like a kind of
continuation of today but it's the weird
stuff that catches us off guard data's a
lot trying to shock people or knock
people out of the normalcy bias exactly
so we all have this normalcy bias our
brain is designed to make sense of the
world in a way that doesn't overwhelm us
and so it it wants to believe that
patterns that have been true in the past
or things that are true today will
continue to be so because if we're
constantly waking up every day being
like ah how do things work now like oh
what's going on um it's too stressful
it's too overwhelming and
so the brain normally assumes things
will continue as they are
but what that means is it can be very
hard to wake up and realize
this thing that
used to be true
is no longer true or this assumption i
had is no longer
helpful
jane mcgonagall welcome to the show
thank you excited to have you here so
futurist game designer two things that i
am
obsessed with so when i heard that your
new book was coming out about that
imaginable
i was immediately hooked and intrigued i
think that we're living through an
incredibly disruptive radical
transformation moment
you talk about that in the book this
idea of future shock
walk us through the whole idea of being
a futurist because you're a futurist not
like in a um oh i'm in my garage
building technology
but you're a futurist in a way that i
think everybody needs to wrap their head
around
you
distressingly
accurately predicted what we just went
through in 2020 with kovid so walk us
through what it means to be a futurist
and how on earth in 2010
you detailed the things that we just
lived through
yes okay so much to chew on well maybe
maybe we should start with future shock
which um you reference um because people
might be wondering you know
what is futuristic where does this come
from so in 1968 alvin hoffler wrote a
book called future shock and this is
sort of the birth of future's thinking
and he was looking around society and
noticing that
people seemed overwhelmed by the rapid
pace of change and you know in the 1960s
it was a very tumultuous time there was
literally people getting shot
yes social upheaval new technologies big
economic disruptions and he was
observing the psychological impacts of
change happening so fast and people
feeling anxiety feeling overwhelmed
feeling like there's too much
uncertainty they couldn't confidently
plan for what was next and he theorized
that this would have a society-scale
toll on our collective well-being and so
he tried to invent ways of
imagining what might be next
first of all so that we could be ready
for anything and not be shocked right
and secondly so that maybe we could
learn how to be more in control of the
change that happens if we can see change
starting then we could make our own
decisions about do i want to
accelerate this change i love where the
future is going let's make it faster i
want to be a part of it or do i want to
try to to stop it slow it down reverse
it mitigate the harms you know control
the risks and
from that 1968 book this whole movement
emerged and i got involved
with futures thinking after i finished
my phd studying the psychology of games
and one thing i learned
i was actually scouted to be a futurist
like at the institute for the future
which is uh the oldest futures
organization in the world
they
look for people who are actually doing
things like in their garage inventing
new technologies um you probably know
allan k's quote
that the best way to predict the future
is to invent it
so i was trying to invent new genres of
games that would allow gamers to apply
their skills to real world problems
and the institute said well you know
sounds like you've got an idea for how
the future could be different come come
make some games with us and see what
happens which is how i wound up
in 2010 running i think that was my
third big future forecasting game a
simulation where
tens of thousands of people the one we
did in 2010 and 20 000 people
living their lives
almost like a role-playing game you know
like dungeons and dragons are on a table
but instead of being around the table
you're around a social network online
and you're imagining how you would react
to different future crises and that game
evoke we asked them to imagine a
respiratory pandemic that started in
china
that was complicated by misinformation
conspiracy theories by a group called
citizen x which
sounds like uh q anon and there were
historic wildfires on the west coast and
there was supply chain collapses and we
just asked people you know what would
you do how would you try to help um this
was the third big game that i did this
and uh you know not only were the
forecasts the scenarios that we asked
people to imagine turned out because
that game was set ten years in the
future so we were imagining 20 20. so
bananas um but but the things that
people said they would do
people really did and it's what makes me
excited about this art form
these social simulations is you know
people predicted they would go to church
even if they were contagious because it
was so important to their identity and
that turned out to be the big super
spreading risk and people said i'm going
to go to work you can tell me to isolate
or stay home but i need to make money so
if the government doesn't pay me to stay
home i'm going to go to work even if i'm
sick we saw that happening and people
who couldn't afford to work from home
we're more likely to get sick
moms said
wait if schools are shut down because of
these issues
how am i going to take care of my kids
am i going to become the teacher am i
going to not be able to work and of
course we saw a mass exodus of women
from the workplace so you know there
were all these social consequences that
experts in public health and
epidemiology did not predict but our
players just ordinary people
knew what they would need or knew how a
crisis would affect them personally and
when you collect that from a thousand or
ten thousand or twenty thousand people
you can actually predict pretty
accurately things that otherwise would
be hard to anticipate
so this is an idea that is hiding in
plain sight that is more
transformational than i think people
realize so when i started reading your
book
my wife and i play a game in business
that we call no what would it
take
which you call ridiculous at first
and
i have the chills like
hearing you say that i was like oh my
god like that's exactly what lisa and i
are doing when we have these crazy big
ideas that we want to do something
insane
um and
you have to get yourself into
a well i look at it as a problem-solving
mindset so there are of course a million
reasons why
we're never gonna you know have our kids
come home from school that would be
ridiculous well it's ridiculous at first
and then you begin to realize you may be
thrust into a position where it's the
only sensible solution and if you stop
at it's ridiculous then you never get to
that next thing which actually allows
you to predict the future pretty
accurately as you said when you start
looking at a whole group of people but
as people begin to understand okay hold
on if i actually get myself past the
fact that this is self-evidently
ridiculous
and now just
no what would it take what
would it look like how will this play
out and they run that scenario you can
find i think of it in terms of solutions
you can find solutions in business that
other people because they stop at the
ridiculousness they never even think
through to find that there actually are
all these really interesting ways that
you could do it
but
in your context if you stop it
that's so ridiculous that will never
happen then you get blindsided by 2020.
so
how do we
and obviously i've read the book so i
know the punchline but how do people get
into that state where they actually can
essentially sit in the future
i mean there's so many habits that are
good for that um i want to pick up on
you know you've introduced this phrase
that i love ridiculous at first and that
comes from something that professional
futurists call datter's law after jim
datter who's another founder of the
field and
datter's law says any useful idea about
the future
should at first seem ridiculous
and that's really important to hold in
our minds right because you know on one
hand
it's easy to prepare for futures that
sound normal that feel like a kind of
continuation of today but it's the weird
stuff that catches us off guard data's
allowed trying to shock people or knock
people out of the normalcy bias exactly
so we all have this normalcy bias our
brain is designed to make sense of the
world in a way that doesn't overwhelm us
and so it it wants to believe that
patterns that have been true in the past
or things that are true today will
continue to be so because if we're
constantly waking up every day being
like ah how do things work now like oh
what's going on um it's too stressful
it's too overwhelming and
so the brain normally assumes things
will continue as they are um but what
that means is it can be very hard to
wake up and realize
this thing that
used to be true
is no longer true or this assumption i
had is no longer
helpful
and so
so we want to have these ridiculous
first ideas one so that we can shake
ourselves from our normalcy bias and
also because the kinds of futures that
we might want to make they might be so
transformative that other people say
you know well that's unimaginable or
that's unthinkable um you know a lot of
people who got involved for example with
the universal basic income movement this
idea that people just get money for
nothing it's so ridiculous but we're
able to prove with pilot studies and
capture people's imagination to actually
you know what let's actually take this
seriously this ridiculous at first idea
um and so we also want to think of ideas
that just sound absurd because the kind
of change we want is probably
going if we're thinking boldly and we're
trying to really make a difference in
the world people will dismiss it um but
should we talk about my favorite habit
or technique for
for coming up with ridiculous at first
ideas so i created this brainstorming
game called 100 ways anything can be
different in the future and it's really
easy you just make a list of things that
are true today
and then you without overthinking it
just rewrite every fact so that the
opposite is now true
and then you look for clues that might
explain why this upside down fact could
be true so i run this game with with all
kinds of organizations and communities a
few weeks ago i was doing it with local
government leaders in the state of
california so mayors and city managers
and state legislators and so one of the
facts about the future we're thinking
about the future democracy one of their
facts was well there's a minimum voting
age in california right like you have to
be 18 to vote in elections so we're
coming up with the facts and then we
just without thinking just rewrite
what's okay what's the upside down
version of this there is no minimum
voting age okay so you just make these
make these facts then you have to go
look for clues well
one what does it mean there's no minimum
voting age so like babies can vote okay
what we do as futurists is we come up
with these ridiculous at first
statements and then we just start typing
them into google we type them into
social media and we we look for people
who are talking about these ideas or
doing them you can go into google
scholar
and it turns out people are actually
advocating at policy centers serious
intellectuals that we should lower the
minimum voting age to zero because
young people have the most on the line
and they're going to live their whole
lives with the decisions that we make
especially around climate action and so
now we've got all these government
leaders thinking like oh california you
know minimum voting age zero what would
that mean and i always when we come up
with these ideas i always ask like
what's your emotional reaction would you
be excited to wake up in the future
would you be worried i had no idea what
they would say i thought maybe they
would really hate this future because it
it's so weird and they really liked it
most of them rated on a scale we'd do
like a scale of one to ten how excited
are you and they were like seven eight
nine so i'm like i'm getting ready just
even for me that's a signal of change
that that people working at government
were
so intrigued by such a strange idea and
how do you because one thing that i
liked in your book is you encourage
people to
um don't just pollyanna don't just
negative think how do you get people to
balance that because like in california
if i run the thought experiment it's a
one-party state i get why they would
love it but if you have a more
contentious state then it becomes who
has the most offspring because of course
if you have a three-year-old they're
gonna vote the way that you want them to
so
how do you help people navigate second
and third order consequences as they
think through
a future that they want to create
so that's a great question first of all
you could definitely crunch some numbers
and you could try to figure out um like
what would shift how would the power of
balance shift
running thought experiments on that
already
it seems like
younger voters probably would really
change just the political landscape i
mean if if you're having especially you
know kids are going to vote the way
their parents want but teenagers
preteens it does kind of change
what what might become central election
issues which i think is exciting but it
might not pan out in the ways that we
think
but we do we actually we have a tool
called draw out consequences where we do
basically
chains of causes and effects okay if
this happened then what would happen and
that happened then what would happen and
you try to create these these chains um
to get to kind of surprising outlier
consequences but the the simplest thing
you can do whenever i have a scenario is
before we start playing with it
everybody has to
think of one thing that they would be
excited about or one thing that could go
right in this future something to be
better in this world and one thing that
could go wrong or one thing they would
be worried about so if we have like 500
people coming to play with a scenario we
instantly have a list of like 500
possible
you know benefits but also 500 risks and
then that sets the groundwork for as we
try to draw out these consequences
people can say like oh okay let me think
about that well what might happen then
and so we do try to have this balance of
positive and shadow imagination because
really any future is going to have
complications but also perhaps
unexpected benefits where people use it
as an opportunity to create positive
change even with the pandemic i mean
many people are trying to use this as an
opportunity to rethink how we do things
might wind up having
lasting positive impacts on work or
learning
now one thing i know you've looked at
certainly on the game side is that
people don't always
make rational decisions
so one thing i found really interesting
when i first became aware of economics
there was still sort of the lingering
tale of humans make perfectly rational
decisions and my first introduction to
uh the fact that we don't was dan ariely
and his idea of predictively irrational
that we are
far more complex and bizarre creatures
than we think we are that people will
lie but only to the point where it
doesn't change their internal sense of
i'm not a liar like he you know points
out all these really interesting facts
so
one you're you're crowd sourcing the
future predictions which makes a lot of
sense which will take into account then
all of the different biases and the fact
that people are different and you know
they aim at different things
but as you think about
at an individual level how do you
bake in the predictably irrational parts
of the human psyche
i actually spend a lot of time asking
people how they would feel in different
futures and i have this whole set of
emotions this is not something i write
about in the books it's kind of fun that
you're asking it's like another tool
that i didn't have room for um and we
have this whole set of emotions and we
asked people like
okay can you imagine you know we're
playing the idea of the next pandemic
let's say the next pandemic it's not a
contagious virus it's tick-borne so you
freaked me out with that in the book i
was like oh god yeah get ready we're all
going to be wearing our socks like above
our pants and that's going to be good
fashion so like you're ready to
transcend that detailed way that you
walk people through this alpha gal yeah
alpha gal crazy um
was unnerving given that you did this 10
years ago with the pandemic so not to
derail us from the point you were about
to make but how
accurate
do you think that prediction is yeah
that's a good question okay let's let's
follow the chain i love you're like
laying out all these breadcrumbs for me
to follow i feel like hansel and gretel
okay so um i asked people like how what
can you imagine a time where you might
feel embarrassed if you were living in
this scenario or time you would feel
proud or a time that you would feel
loved or grateful and we try to create a
landscape of stories you know it becomes
a story that we're all telling together
and it helps me understand what might
drive behavior
if if we understand you know what are
people angry about in the future or what
are people grateful for it really helps
you get a much more
um
nuanced sense of as you said these are
rational decisions we make when we were
playing with pandemics back in 2008 2010
we had people wear masks in their
everyday lives the players we had about
8 000 people we said wear these to
school wear these to parties wear it on
public transportation and tell us how it
feels and just based on how it felt
emotionally to these individuals and you
know physically what they were reporting
we knew early in 2020 it was going to be
very hard to convince people to adopt
this new behavior even though it seems
so rational right so you so we ask these
questions about feelings that's how we
try to bake it in um the alpha gal
crisis is
definitely
um
so
it's very i think it's very realistic i
think you know we will absolutely be
living in a future where more people
have been sensitized to this sugar
molecule right so there's a already
there's a disease it's called alpha gal
syndrome it's from being bitten by a
tick it's being bitten by a tick is it a
a cousin of lyme disease is it related
to lyme yeah it's the same creature that
passes it on yeah so the tick has this
molecule the sugar molecule in it um and
it comes from how it you know from deer
and things like that and it accidentally
mixes with your blood so when it's
biting you it's some of this sugar
molecule from the tick gets injected
into your bloodstream and your immune
system reacts like it's the bubonic
plague it's really just
it's literally just sugar it's something
that's in
animal products like beef or gelatin
but your body because it came in this
weird way into your bloodstream from a
bite your body says okay whenever i see
this we're going full you know five
alarm fire and people develop severe
allergic reactions to any animal product
not just getting bitten again but if
they you know
eat a vitamin gummy that has gelatin in
it or they they have any animal product
or mammals mammalian meat products right
um and uh but which is in more things
than you realize right like a lot of
toilet paper
gelatin to be soft you know so you have
to like literally in the future you
might have people carrying around you
know like their own toilet paper the way
we're i don't know carrying around
sanitizer now and we think about these
details just to help people imagine it
will we definitely live in a world where
you know
10 of americans have this or more um
already in the united states in the
south the southeastern section more than
a third of people when you just randomly
pick people off the street and test
their blood
they've already been bitten and already
sensitized
so you know one or two more bites or if
they continue to eat a diet that's
really high in mammalian meat products
every time you get exposed it increases
your
allergic risk so we definitely could
see this it depends on what we do like
any future scenario
one of the reasons why we want to
imagine it before it happens is maybe we
could change it you know it's not
inevitable
that
we will continue to change our
environment so that tick populations
grow it's not inevitable
that we'll eat diets that put us at risk
i mean there are lots of ways it's not
inevitable that scientists won't
you know figure out a treatment right
there are so many pathways to
affect this future the reason we imagine
it now is
one to just prepare ourselves with
knowledge i mean i for one
uh definitely am more conscious about
being tick safe just because i don't
need any more spice in my life right now
and that if it does start to unfold i
won't be shocked i won't be like frozen
in old ways of doing things i'll be able
to adapt faster
but also like to to
lend my support to people who might be
trying to prevent this future in any way
i can so
so yeah it's not inevitable but i mean
for sure it's something we should be
ready for because it's already happening
these signals of change are already
underway yeah so walk me through why
it's beneficial to think through this
stuff so as somebody that has struggled
with anxiety i know that you can get
yourself in a twist
by rehearsing what i call rehearsing
failure so you're obsessing like i used
to think of it as well i'm just planning
my escape route so if i get into a
situation my anxiety goes crazy like how
am i going to back out of this
and
what i found was oh this meeting or
whatever i'm about to go in i'm just
thinking of the 30 ways that it could go
wrong so that i have an escape hatch for
each one of them
but once i flipped a switch and said i'm
just going to let
the the disastrous scenario catch me off
guard so that i'm only rehearsing the
success
so i'm looking at the 30 ways that it
could go right making sure that i'm
ready for those that i know how to move
in that case and what it was doing was
just literally obliterating my sort what
i call background radiation my anxieties
my fears they just they never had a
chance to incubate because i wasn't
giving them any energy now that means
that at some point i'm going to get
totally caught off guard and be like
whoa i did not see that coming because
i've only thought about the good things
but when i think about the dramatic
reduction
in anxiety that it brought to focus on
this is going to work this is going to
be amazing imagining myself winning
that was really helpful but in the book
you explain something and i bought into
it totally that there actually is
certainly in this sort of anti-future
shock way there's a real benefit to
thinking through this stuff yeah and i
will say
you know when i first started working in
this space i did not expect people to
feel less anxiety by imagining these
catastrophes i actually felt bad i would
you know i because i had been making you
know more traditional video games and i
was inviting people who liked my work to
come play with these scenarios and like
uh like i know it sounds scary but like
it'll be fun trust me and i didn't know
if it would work but
over you know more than a decade of
doing this people come out of imagining
these scenarios
fired up
super empowered it's part of why i
wanted to write this book to dig into
the psychology and neuroscience because
it doesn't initially seem to make sense
there are a couple key factors to it and
by the way i say like you
it's not enough just to like read about
these scenarios or talk about them or
like listen to a podcast or watch a show
you will feel anxious what changes
people's mindset is playing with the
scenarios it's like if you're hungry and
you just look at a plate of food it
doesn't help you have to eat it so you
have to actually play with these
scenarios
if you just
read about them or listen it it doesn't
have the same transformative effect but
so the first thing the biggest thing
if you vividly imagine something and you
only need to do it for five minutes so
you don't have to
you know
every day wake up what you know what am
i doing to prayer literally you do this
one time in your life for five minutes
so that your brain is essentially
you overcome the normalcy bias and it
becomes something your brain believes is
possible okay so like one of the
scenarios in the book is a government
mandated internet shutdown for cyber
security reasons just turn off the
internet for two weeks or four weeks and
and governments around the world are
doing this now um so how would you
prepare for that and you imagine it
literally for five minutes okay then
just file it away what happens is if you
wake up
and the future you imagined is now
happening
instead of being shocked or denying it
like this can't be real you know that
slows people down they're not able to
adapt or act quickly your brain actually
has a positive emotion which is
pre-recognition
your brain says yeah i knew this could
happen like i was smart enough to take
this possibility seriously
and
that doesn't mean you were able to
prevent it
um or stop it from happening but it's
it's a positive emotion it gives you
confidence it gives you a sense of
readiness and clarity and
to start your process of having to adapt
or deal with a crisis or disruption from
a state of confidence and clarity rather
than anxiety confusion feeling helpless
it's it really changes the way that you
emotionally experience
things that can create a lot of
suffering so that's one thing the other
thing is that when i have people play
with scenarios the big thing we focus on
is what would you do to help others
also what kind of help would you need
and it becomes like a matchmaking right
people are saying like ah this would be
a problem for me and oh i have a
solution for that
and
this is actually
an incredible way to build confidence
for any situation we kind of get out of
our own head and think about being of
service to other people and that service
mentality that that identifying our
skills and our strengths and our values
and passions that would you know help
someone else in a crisis
that allows us to
to think about these hypothetical
possibilities again from a position of
strength of confidence of being ready
and it gives us more insight into our
own strengths and skills that we don't
have to wait for an actual catastrophe
right we might start to get more in
touch with the kinds of actions or
businesses um
that would be something we could do
today so people tend to leave these
scenarios
fired up which is which is good and i
did not i did not expect that it was
something i had to
watch happen again and again as players
participated and uh to this day the
alpha gal syndrome i was just
saying at a book event last night
this is people love this scenario and i
was really surprised i thought it might
like traumatize people especially coming
out of one pandemic to think of another
pandemic but what i learned is people
want the opportunity to imagine us doing
better we did kind of a not a great job
with this pandemic so they're like they
want to imagine
what's what's the next version where
everything you know goes
goes better um and even the host of this
event she was like yeah i love that
scenario too it was my favorite so it's
like you just don't you just can't
imagine until you actually start
imagining how something
that seems so stressful could actually
make you feel good but talk to me about
the degree of specificity that was one
thing that i found really interesting
like even with the alpha gal thing in
the book you really go into like here's
how entrepreneurs will react i was like
wow that really is true um and that it
was so obviously predictable once you
start thinking okay what would
entrepreneurs do what would moms do what
would businesses do like it was
really interesting but you have this
like hyper degree of specificity that
you encourage people to do
not it's heavy it's 100 pounds that kind
of thing
yeah well i mean so
one technique for bringing specificity
to these scenarios is we ask you to just
live with it almost like an augmented
reality layer on top of your everyday
life just in your imagination yeah it's
like just like kind of background um
imagination it's like you so you might
go into a cafe like a coffee shop and be
like okay if we were living in an alpha
gal crisis what would be different here
you know are you going to like a
backyard cookout one of the things that
i learned in researching this scenario
is that
if you have the syndrome just smelling
airborne meat
um continue into anaphylactic shock
it's super crazy so then i start
imagining well i have lots of friends
who like cookout culture is important to
them so what are they doing on weekends
does this become the new social division
between people who have to of
mask up around meat or do we adapt do we
like come up with new new cultures
what's what's the new pregame or the new
backyard ritual and we can't i mean i
can't predict on my own what the
specificity would be but when you have
lots of people looking at the things
they care about you know we did a we did
an oil crisis
simulation
years ago and one of the most
enthusiastic participation groups was a
nascar enthusiast and they were like we
have to be able to imagine how this fort
could continue even in the absence of
traditional fuel and
so if you look at a scenario from what
you love from what you know what you
have your own lived experience or or
expertise with then you can get specific
and so
um for me you know i might look at
things like
running how does running culture change
or how did being a mom change or how
does gaming industry react and so we
just you bring your expertise and
suddenly it's not
you know if we're if we're thinking
about in the abstract we just have a
really hard time but then it gets when
we bring our own
you know our whole selves to it we
realize we have so much information
about what could change just based on
our own wisdom that we bring to the
future all right my friend i have a big
announcement my incredible and talented
wife lisa is about to launch her new
book radical confidence in it she has
managed to perfectly capture the process
of how to go from feeling lost and
insecure to taking control of your life
and doing amazing things despite feeling
fear sometimes a lot of fear now let me
tell you nobody knows lisa better than
me but when i read radical confidence
for the first time and heard her
describe what it was like for her to go
from having these big exciting dreams as
a kid to then as an adult scheduling her
life around the tv shows that she wanted
to watch or how lonely and isolated she
felt instead of pursuing her dreams it
was brutal for me i would never say
though that it was worth it for her to
go through all of that just so that she
could write something down that allows
others to avoid it but i will say that
at least she was able to capture the
strategies that she used to break out of
that rut find her voice and begin doing
incredible things despite her
insecurities and fears that she wasn't
going to be good enough to achieve great
things so while it hurts me to know the
dark place that lisa went through i
really am excited for people who are
going through something similar right
now to read this book radical confidence
is an instruction manual for how to
become the hero of your own life even
when you're scared to death look i know
better than just about anybody how easy
it is to get off track in life or to
just not have yet found your calling and
it's even easier for people to feel so
insecure and unprepared that they don't
even want to pursue the things that they
want but what lisa shows people in
radical confidence is that the radical
part is that you can accomplish
extraordinary things even when you feel
fear that's what radical confidence is
being afraid and unsure and having a
tool kit that allows you to still make
massive progress pre-order your copy
today because if you act now you can
claim the bonuses that lisa has created
for you at
radicalconfidence.com they're only
available if you pre-order so act now
then once you've done that we'll get
back to today's episode all right guys
read the book and get ready to be the
hero of your own life peace out
[Music]
yeah one thing that as an exercise i
found really interesting in the book and
i could see how it would play out well
and in the book you give three scenarios
if i remember right and you're like i
want you to spend the next 10 days two
weeks whatever actually living it like
you were just explaining
but like okay hey you're gonna have to
wear a mask as you go to the barbecue
what kind of mask do you wear yeah oh
you wear your favorite football team
amazing what does it feel like is it
rough is it smooth and like as you
what something interesting happens to
the brain when you force yourself to
keep answering these layers of questions
like the the visual starts to become
real and you can really internalize it
versus
so here's an interesting idea i very
rarely talk about this out loud be
curious to hear your thoughts so
in business there's a concept i'm always
trying to get young entrepreneurs to
understand that emotions
will make dots feel like they connect
that don't actually connect because your
brain just sort of smooths it in fills
in the gaps you imagine like alpha gal
crisis yeah i would be fine i would just
avoid the ticks in the woods
but you're not really getting in to
understand no no now they're migrating
to the beaches and they're you know
whatever 10 times more present than they
were this is not some minor thing like
it's really escalating and so
getting out of emotion and getting into
what i tell people to do is journal
because you need to be able to write it
down in a single sentence yes so that
got a reaction so well yeah i mean my
favorite technique is journaling from
the future when people ask me like what
can i do to really benefit from playing
with a scenario
i say well write a journal entry because
free write for five minutes but you have
a you have a goal your goal is to get as
many vivid details into this journal
entry as possible and i want you to
score yourself afterwards i want you to
go back and count out you know how many
how many visual details colors shapes
how many auditory details were you
describing something you could hear
tactile details if you were talking to
someone did you write down you know the
words that came out of their mouth
so you can count up tally up the number
of details the more detailed your
journal entry the more effective it
seems to be for increasing your ability
to think strategically and creatively
about a future and to overcome the
normalcy bias right if you have three
details like you might need to try again
30 details you're done you're ready and
when we really want to create deep
understanding of a scenario we do have
people do it for at least 10 days so
every day for 10 days
take something you're actually doing
okay so i'm you know getting dressed
this morning
okay
what am i wearing in this future that is
different from what i would wear today
and how am i making that decision and
how do i feel about it how do i look and
sometimes people will
you know it's not just writing you can
take selfies from the future you can
kind of create artifacts from the future
well um
you know so one of the scenarios in the
book is imagining uh climate mass
climate migration and there's a
political movement to be more um
supportive of people who have to move
due to extreme heat or drought
and the party it's called the welcome
party right we should be welcoming
so
i just made a t-shirt with welcome party
on it and the symbol of this you know
fictional party is a monarch butterfly
so i'm drawing monarch butterflies on it
and uh yeah and you made that up the the
symbol and all that stuff yeah yeah yeah
yeah to help people imagine right um and
we have we have ideas like you could
make a
you could take a picture of a monarch
butterfly and put it in your window
as like a sign to other it's like this
is a safe house like if if you are so
totally behind me developer this is
right
building the details and so you know
that's one of the skills that i do try
to teach in the book is how do you
create
visual
artifacts of the future symbols things
you can wear things you can show others
and then yeah take photos put it on
social media start a conversation or
have someone ask you like what's the
welcome party oh let me tell you about
this weird scenario i'm trying to figure
out when i would move and if i would
move where i would go and if i had to go
what would i need and would it be are
there laws to support it could i find
you know do i am i ready do i have the
language skills um and so we create
these you know
things that spark conversation
um so yeah you're writing these journal
entries and you're you're doing it every
day for 10 days and you're making your
artifacts and taking your selfies and if
you do it for 10 days around 10
different
things that you know or activities you
do or communities that you're a part of
you get this incredibly rich view of a
future where you've essentially turned
yourself into an expert on this future
and you know the most
the most people that i've had
participate in in one of these
you know
long form explorations of a scenario was
about 20 000 and
i would like to see you know 200 000 or
2 million and hoping that we start to
build this as a skill set and a practice
because
we want people to have deep expertise
about the future before it happens not
just you know
some you know futurist nerds who can see
it coming
so speaking of
things that futurist nerds can see
coming let's talk about cryptocurrency
so
the more i look at so
uh getting into crypto has really
reframed my sense of what the future is
going to be
ray dalio has really formed like what my
sense of the future is going to be
and when i put them together
i do worry that we're coming into some
pretty rocky times
and so i know you speak very
intelligently around cryptocurrency so
as you one have you run any scenarios
around this have you done this kind of
gamification around it um
yeah i mean
look the future that i'm encouraging
people to be ready for is
significant government regulation and
in governments
having their own cryptocurrency
alternative um so
trying to understand what would a
central bank digital currency look like
how would it operate what would you get
i think
and maybe this is exactly where you're
going so as you try to predict that what
what are you thinking about in terms of
like what made you think oh the
governments will run their own
well so i mean look the the bread and
butter of future forecasting is
collecting signals of change right so
it's from what's already from what's
already happening it's our raw material
and so you know we have this huge
database at the institute for the future
all of our researchers we are required
ideally every day at at least one signal
of change that you're seeing and we look
for trends and patterns
so you know i mean one
important signal change is that
literally every government that has a
sovereign currency is experimenting is
planning they are looking at it
they have teams
tasked with
designing a cryptocurrency
for the federal government
another signal that i found absolutely
fascinating is china's decision to
launch its own national cryptocurrency
and to give it away
for free so how do we make this currency
popular how do we start to
you know we don't we don't want to just
have to ban
bitcoin
we want to entice people to say i would
rather
get i would rather be a part of this
ecosystem because the government's
giving it to me for free and they get
they were getting different companies to
offer incentives so digital you want
already rolled out yeah wow i didn't
know that i knew that they
it was coming yeah i knew that they
booted bitcoin but i know they'd already
rolled it out now and it depends on you
know
what nations do you think will be
essentially
cultural thought leaders in the coming
decades
a lot of nations look to china now as
as the ideal you know able to respond
quickly um you know that combination of
authoritarian power but
bold sweeping future visions you know
they're not trying to go backwards
they're trying to go forwards um
if you if you ask just ordinary people
in many countries around the world
they'll say well we'd rather be like
china than like the us so when when a
government does something like that
there you know that's an important thing
to look at and you know we see the
signals growing the current biden
administration just announced i think a
couple weeks ago that they are starting
their own development of a central bank
digital currency
and then the other you know why do i
think this is plausible i mean there's
so many cool things as you know that you
can do with programmable money
it makes sense that governments would
want to have this it's it's such a more
powerful way to stimulate
and impact the economy so if you want to
give out cash stimulus but you don't
want people to just save it because
you're trying to
provoke spending you can send out
programmable money that expires in 30
days or you can make it location
specific you can only spend it in this
region that was hit by you know a
hurricane or trying to rebuild
um there are really cool things you can
do with it you can you can have money
that accrues
um negative interest if you save it
right so let's say you don't want a
company like apple sitting on piles of
cash right um
they have they it gets shrinks instead
of accruing interest it it gets you know
you have less money if you're not
spending it so just the fact that you
can do so many powerful things makes it
seem pretty obvious that governments are
going to want to have that power and use
it and they will probably try to
regulate
the existing cryptocurrency
market industry in order to be able to
create demand for that their own product
and i'm not
i mean it is
there are definitely reasons to be
worried about such a future i also think
i mean i think there's some really cool
aspects to it i mean i i could see
reasons to be excited for the government
having this infrastructure so
we try to keep that balance of positive
and shadow imagination because if you're
only worried about it
then you won't see the reasons why it
would happen and you have to be aware of
other people's positive motivations why
they're excited about it or then you
really will be blindsided you know this
will never happen because it's obviously
a terrible idea
yeah that that brings me back to ray
dalio so
he catches a lot of flack because he's
very um
i mean he might say just sort of
objective but i'll say he's pretty
positive about china and what he's
watched them do
and he's always like you can't judge
like somebody else's value system you
can say that it's not yours but you
can't judge their value system and it's
interesting to see how this will play
out around different value systems how
people think about it
um
[Music]
there is certainly a shadow imagination
side to the traceability of what will
certainly happen with
um the governments having a digital
currency that they can track everything
like somehow
because of bitcoins early like when it
was under under under the radar
people made the mistake of thinking that
that was a wise way to do criminal
behavior that's the worst possible way
ever literally they can go back and
track this whole record years ago so
yeah that would be really really absurd
and so
of course that will be a feature not a
bug of anything that governments do
which does make me worry a little but
in terms of
value going digital it's going to happen
and as you said it's a value system one
of the things i always try to stretch
people's imagination around is the
competing values of privacy and
transparency or accountability we know
in china
it's not just from from the government
culture wide
they there's more of a value for
transparency and accountability and so
when you think when you look at all the
facial recognition technology that's
being rolled out there to a lot of
americans this sounds like a dystopian
nightmare but
people there will say well i feel safer
or there's been positive change people
change their behaviors people my
community they're they're better people
now now
i that doesn't mean i'm not a supporter
of you know any but
but the idea that we would never
allow that technology to gain a foothold
in american society i think a lot of
people believe that they believe that
the value of privacy
is so strong that we're not going to see
mass adoption of this technology you
know which is a mistake and one signal
of change that i look at here is when
when
law enforcement started using
information
the genetic
data information from people uploading
their
their dna to get their ancestry
oh yeah that's how they cut that's how
they caught the uh the golden state
killer you know yeah oh i see you
anymore well as somebody who grew up
like uh terrified of all these serial
killers who were never caught i mean i'm
actually quite excited that law
enforcement now they can go to like
23andme and they can search
for
relatives if they have dna from a
suspect they can figure out okay well
here's somebody this is like a second
cousin let's look for all of their
cousins and uh and they've identified
some of the most notorious
unsolved
so you know zero can not hear about it i
don't know but for me it was like i
could finally sleep at night uh and
these cert these people live like loom
large in in my you know anxiety
now when when law enforcement first
started doing this there were all these
thought pieces like opinion pieces about
this is this is an invasion of privacy
people don't expect when they upload
their data to you know to learn you know
what are my ancestral origins they don't
expect it to turn be turned over to law
enforcement so
there was this sense that maybe there
would be a regulation we would stop this
will crack down but they didn't
anticipate is how excited so many people
would be women in particular that people
who for decades were committing these
acts of violence are now
brought to justice
and now imagine living in a world where
that kind of criminal activity is no
longer possible to undertake in the same
way
again i'm not saying you know the
technology is good or bad or this is
like totally uh a utopian situation
but if you are blind to why some people
might look you look at it as invasion of
privacy
other people look at it as a relief like
thank god at last people will be held
accountable we have to hold these
competing values in mind as you said
because
the world may decide to go in a
different direction and just because
privacy has been one of our highest
values in the united states for however
many
centuries now doesn't mean it will
continue and we have to be really
mindful of
what people actually feel and what they
actually want and it might challenge our
assumptions signals have changed man
you've put words to
something that to your point about
future shock and this feeling a bit like
the 60s where changes are suddenly
happening at such a radical pace
there are so many signals of change
happening right now some good some bad
and it will be very interesting to see
because if people are dismissing it and
they're not looking at it going okay
this this is a signal man this is not
like oh you should or could dismiss this
like it really needs to be the thing
that informs how you think through what
the future is going to look like
so i don't know if you know who ralph
paul is but he's very um
big in the cryptocurrency world he's a
macro investor
and he said something and when i was
reading your book i was like oh my god
like this is so you're the missing link
between this notion that raoul paul has
so this is what he says is the secret to
his success he says he steps into the
future and then he looks back and says
what would have to have been true for us
to end up here
but the part that's always been missing
is how do you step into the future
and so your idea of the journaling and
the creating details and the really
taking these signals of change and like
amplifying them and where do they go
that allows you to get into the future
and then you can look back and say okay
either what would we have to do to
change this so that we don't end up in
this imagine future but at least you
have a sense of what that imagined
future is so you can be looking
backwards i think you quote in your book
that idea of it's a sad memory that can
only
be used in the future looking backwards
it's a poor form of memory that only
works backwards that's lewis carroll
it's from from one of his um alice in
wonderland such a cool idea yeah and you
know so
i think most people are familiar with
the term future forecasting so we also
have this term future back casting and
it's particularly useful when you have a
future that you want to wake up in you
know i want to wake up in a world where
three-day work week is the new norm
let's say um or i want to wake up in a
world where cars are banned in los
angeles whatever you know we just like
we have a feeling like i think this
would be a great future now we probably
want to you know imagine in detail look
for unanticipated consequences to make
sure we really want the future but let's
say you've got a future you want um then
you do you back cast and you can go back
and do we do a lot of
news headlines from the future where we
try to imagine
tell us you know each year what was the
pivotal news story that
reflects this process of change or this
escalation of an idea or a movement or
behavior and so yeah backcasting is
really great it's especially great when
you have a future that you want and
while i for whatever reason i have
personally more fun imagining the
futures we don't want that's my sort of
jam
i think a lot of people will
will be more inspired and motivated to
really articulate those best-case
scenario features while i'm over here
doing the worst case ones
and imagining that vividly and then
doing this back casting because it just
gives you ideas
for what to do and i always say try to
backcast all the way to as far as what
could you do in the next 24 hours to
make this future more likely um just
force yourself to roll up your sleeves
and do something to
start trying to have an impact on this
future and i'd be so curious to know how
that breaks along gender lines the whole
idea so reading about the female brain
and what's the difference between the
male and female you've got so men
there's no real investment in having
children it's a very it's the cost of
producing sperm whereas for women that's
like a real thing nine months plus you
know caretaking beyond that and i heard
it described that females have a
detective's brain which is why they're
interested in serial killers my wife is
obsessed every time i turn around
someone is shrieking getting stabbed to
death on the tv and i'm like
how do you watch this stuff yeah and
that has been anecdotally like a thing
in my life where you know women will get
together and talk about oh yeah watching
the serial killer show or they just have
a real deep fascination with that
and the thought of you
you know imagining the ways that things
could go wrong so you can backcast and
make sure that we don't end up there
i don't know that you would be alone in
that i think that i would my sort of
hypothesis and who knows if i'm right
but my hypothesis would be that there
would be a disproportionate number of
women who really want to look at that
that their mind just gravitates to how
do i avoid this bad thing
uh which brings a real genius to
the equation because if somebody isn't
doing that then we're really going to be
in trouble
you know i mean it's a good instinct you
have a good intuition you have when i
think about
who shows up to participate in these
simulations and to play these future
forecasting games there is a slight
majority women who show up so
um which
which is not true for the field i mean
the field of future forecasting
historically has been predominantly men
but
um
but when it comes to actually playing
these games we do see um a lot of women
too so maybe it's our detective mind i
like that that's interesting very
interesting all right i would be super
remiss as somebody so right now at
impact theory we are developing a i
hesitate to call it a video game but
it's so close to that that we'll just
for now we'll round it to that
but i have a very strong thesis that
video games in the next three to five
years are not going to look like there
will still be all the classic games we
have now because they're just amazingly
fun those will all exist but there will
be this new kind of gaming a better way
to say it um that will come out of web3
and so what makes web3 interesting to me
is what i'll call wallet aware
encounters so i i need better names for
all this stuff because it sounds sort of
unsexy and i think it's the coolest
thing in the world um but have you read
ready player one of course okay so huge
difference between the movie and the
book but in the book he describes what i
think this new wave of web 3 gaming is
going to be which i will call game like
experiences so you've got a
even in the book you've got the sort of
battle royale style where we're in a
combat zone and we're doing our thing
but then there's i mean in the book it's
probably 95 percent is a non-combat zone
and it's all these weird experiences
somebody builds uh a replica of their
hometown and you can go in and if you go
in the arcade and you you know beat this
game then it opens this door and you go
in and you meet this person
and that to me is
where a lot of new style gaming is going
to be because i can look at your wallet
as technology
and inside of your wallet will be what
i'll call affinity cues so you'll tell
me what you're into just by what you own
and so i can see that and i can
customize an experience
and then so that's sort of early phase
one right so my wife has a book coming
up called radical confidence and we're
doing an nft drop around it she's got
this whole thing in real life she really
does this uh that she calls her bad
boots
and so she has struggled with insecurity
and so she found ways to sort of build
herself up through
her clothes and self-signaling and all
this stuff so we're gonna make these 3d
boots and then if you have those boots
on then we can create an experience for
you you know you walk in and uh you know
let's say that we create an experience
where you meet lisa and some of her
other entrepreneurial friends and you're
suddenly in this space and it's game
like but it's not like you're collecting
coins or shooting people it's a
different kind of
game experience
but
cued off of this thing that you have in
your wallets now and the reason that i'm
bringing this up to you is rule number
one of game design find the fun yeah
have you thought through like because
you're doing this in real life like in
fact i would call these things evoke and
the other one that you did as sort of
game-like experiences yes so again i'm
not collecting coins but there there is
like a i'm a part of a group there are
more people playing it we're coming back
and we're sharing something and so
there's this sense of like you said it's
an rpg
have you thought at all about sort of
where web 3 goes from here and what this
looks like
yeah i mean my research on web 3 and
gaming has been primarily around
getting paid to play and what the new
economies might be like
so i will start by saying what you
describe sounds really interesting so i
will be paying attention to it as a new
signal of change and putting it into our
institute for the future database so
thank you for putting that on my radar i
mean my own uh i would say it was almost
10 years ago i was doing a big forecast
for
a chinese game company and
i
the core of my forecast was you know in
the future people will expect to
generate
income from playing your games and uh
this idea that gamers pay you for your
game is going to be completely flipped
upside down that they're going to be
incredible revenue streams around gaming
and through gaming and and owning our
assets and being being paid by the game
companies for the value that we create
because
most games the the real value is from
the community of players the esteem that
you give each other the the ingenuity
and creativity that you bring to these
worlds um and
so yeah like get ready for a totally new
financial ecosystem and they thought it
was
the most
ridiculous idea not not ridiculous at
first but ridiculous they're like we
just don't
they're like game companies would never
agree to we're just like the revenue is
just not going to be shared it's just
not going to happen and i think what was
this
i want to say it was like 2 000
maybe
whoa
yes wow yeah i need to i need to be
following everything you guys are doing
way more closely that's crazy yeah i
don't know how you came to that that
fast but damn i think i gave a talk at
the um
rsa conference at moscone about this
maybe about five years ago where i was
laying out all the the signals but so
yeah for me that's a real interest and
to think about not just how it changes
gaming but how it changes work and you
know if you can create essentially a
basic income for yourself through
playing
what kinds of work might you not be
willing to do i mean it's already hard
enough now to get people to do
low wage work
um
if there are alternatives that
are more like things that we naturally
have a passion for
we're really going to have to rethink
who
who does the rest of the work and um so
it's exciting i think it's exciting um
that's where my research around web 3 um
has been so have you been paying
attention to what i'll call a sort of
civil war between traditional gamers and
web3 gamers yeah oh yeah what do you
think is driving that because there is
so much vitriol it's insane well i mean
one of the big problems is that
traditional gaming is is using this
technology to extract more money from
players not to
share
the revenue with them and
so i think you know the traditional
gaming community sees it as a cash grab
rather than trying to
innovate for the good of the gaming
ecosystem or community um you know
they're trying to sell nfts to get more
money but it's not a it's not a
they're not making a
persuasive case that this is actually
going to benefit
gamers by participating in this um and i
think that's where a lot of the the
friction is right now there's nobody's
presented um
within traditional gaming uh a
convincing case that well if we bring
this technology into these communities
that that it will have benefit so i
think so they're thinking that the game
companies are using nfts as a way to be
further sort of parasitic extractive
yeah like you know i mean
game game gamers and game developers
have had a
difficult relationship since
in some ways since the shift
to freemium models where
um oh yeah it's you know free to play
but then they keep trying to get you to
pay for more moves or more energy and
all these upgrades and access um and
there's a sort of nostalgia for the day
where i could just buy a game and play
it and i didn't feel like i was
constantly i'm trying to pick my pocket
all the time and like it created a sort
of adversarial relationship i still
every time i do an interview and
somebody's interested like we got to
talk about game economics it's so
exploitative um people feel really i
there was this feeling of being abused
and exploited by the new game economic
models and so i think that and it's i
mean it's essentially a kind of trauma
that the game industry inflicted on its
own community and so i think it's hard
to see clearly if there are
opportunities with this technology
because so many gamers are used to
i would say more of a bad faith
and and game companies are moving away
from it now um fortnight was kind of a
breakthrough right where um yes
you can pay more money
but it doesn't give you an advantage in
the game right um it's more expressive
and status but you can't pay your way to
the top and that felt more fair it felt
like like a more just economic model
and so i think we just need to kind of
live through
fair economies in gaming for this to
make sense and build
any real interest or enthusiasm
yeah it's interesting being on the web 3
side of this and being like oh man
gamers are going to love this because
i'm an avid gamer old school gaming been
gaming since atari
even still to this day i game and
i was so smitten with web3 as soon as i
got what it was going to be i was like
oh my god this is so amazing and so then
really expected oh games will be like
one of the first places that this is
adopted you now own your skin and it's
not just you know something that you
have but you can't really sell it
um and then
you know you watch enough youtube videos
and you realize whoa like there's this
real pushback but from the web3 side
it's like
i i get it because if you're thinking
that this is just going to be a
siphoning tool that the game developers
are going to use and maybe it is maybe
that's what traditional games will do
with it but they will ultimately be
supplanted by
games on the web 3 side my only beef is
that the web 3 side is approaching it
from play to earn instead of play and
earn yes which i think is is also going
to have its moment of like where we
watch game economies collapse in on
itself and there has to be an intrinsic
value to the game right to be
sustainable i want to i want to i want
to make money
playing my favorite games not some weird
new system you know what i want to say
um
i think the
one of the biggest problems where uh
this like movement is shooting itself in
the foot accidentally with gamers is the
how the idea of a metaverse a singular
metaverse where you can have
interoperability
really sounds naive to game developers
because
you know we don't want yeah like i don't
want you bringing your fortnite weapons
onto my animal crossing island what am i
supposed to do do you know what i'm like
okay you're you got it i think that's
another it's like it
from a it's not just from a
technological standpoint it's from a
cultural social standpoint we don't
actually want interoperability of all of
these web three assets in the sense that
we don't like you may design things that
i don't want to exist in my
experience so getting back to what
you're creating you know this idea that
in my wallet you'll have my affinities
and you'll know me so you know not to
bring any weapons onto my island i mean
that makes a lot of sense and it sounds
like a much more plausible way to get to
a future where we do see that
integration of the gameful experience
with this tech
yeah so i think one thing that's going
to happen is so it's what i call the
metaverse archipelago
so
right now and the bet that we're making
is that it's going to be unreal engine
and you've got a bunch of people in the
web 3 space developing games inside of
unreal engine and that um
[Music]
if they do what i'm talking about these
game-like experiences then you've really
got a shot because there's parts of the
game that don't require weapons so we
don't have to worry about balancing and
things like that
but if you're just walking around the
the experiential side of the game then
you've got your consistent identity
which i think will be a big thing
jane i can talk to you about the stuff
forever we will talk about it again i
think let's stay in conversation because
i'm excited about what you're doing
absolutely so i'm going to now be
obsessively following every word out of
your mouth given your ability to predict
the future fair uh
where can other people do the same
so besides the book which is called
imaginable we also just opened at the
institute for the future our first
public center for social simulation and
imagination training it's called urgent
optimists plural because there's a bunch
of us
dot org and you can come and get a new
scenario every month and play these
games with me and find other people
reading imaginable and work through the
games and scenarios together i love it
guys she's helping us all predict the
future i can't say anything more
powerful than that in terms of reasons
to go read the book following her you
will be richly rewarded and speaking of
things that will reward you if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care peace